Minimal readme file (#7)
laradru/ai-palatal-rugoscopy: README.md

# AI Palatal Rugoscopy

Instance segmentation of palatal rugae patterns using Deep Learning.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Development environment

> By default, we use a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container as development environment. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion

By default, we use a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container as the development environment.
```

Before building the image, please ensure you have the following resources available:

> - GPU with an updated driver version
> - nvidia-container-tookit (allows running GPU-accelerated containers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NVIDIA GPU with an updated driver version
- `nvidia-container-tookit` (allows running GPU-accelerated containers)
```

> The script [build-container.sh](docker/build-container.sh) automatically builds the image and creates the container. To execute this script, run the following command in a bash terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script [`docker/build-container.sh`](docker/build-container.sh) automatically builds the image and creates the container. To execute this script, run the following command in a bash terminal:
```

```shell
cd docker
bash build_container.sh --data-path <DATA_PATH>
```

> Where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Where:

```

```
DATA_PATH is the path to a folder containing the dataset (images).
```

> ## Dataset Preprocessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dataset Preprocessing

```

> There are a few scripts available to preprocess data. They can be found in the [standalone](src/standalone/) directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few scripts available to preprocess data. They can be found in the [src/standalone](src/standalone/) directory.
```

- `dataset_split.py`: Splits a dataset into `train`, `test` and `validation` sets. Usage: 
```shell
python dataset_split.py --annotations-path <ANNOTATION_FILE> --output-path <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY> --split <TRAIN_SIZE> <VALIDATION_SIZE> [<TEST_SIZE>]

> ```

Reviewer: You could indent with 2 spaces if you want this code block to align with the text in the bullet.

> Where

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Where

```

```
ANNOTATION_FILE: Path to annotation file.
OUTPUT_DIRECTORY: Path to the output file.
TRAIN_SIZE: Percentage of samples to be allocated in the train subset.
VALIDATION_SIZE: Percentage of samples to be allocated in the validation subset.
TEST_SIZE (Optional): Percentage of samples to be allocated in the test subset.
```

- `dataset_patches_generation.py`: Break images into patches. Usage:

> 

Reviewer: You're not very consistent with your line breaks, it appears? 😆 
```suggestion
```

Author: Indeed :laughing:. It is all about avoiding ugly blocks of code/text. We can establish a pattern if you wish.

Reviewer: Most of what I'm suggesting here is that both titles and code blocks are separated by empty lines (above and below) from the rest of the text.

Reviewer: The only exception could be (but I honestly prefer it to be the same) code blocks inside bullet points.

```shell
python dataset_patches_generation.py --input-directory <INPUT_DIRECTORY> --input-annotations <INPUT_ANNOTATIONS> --output-directory <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>

> ```

Reviewer: ditto (the indentation that I mentioned before)

> Where

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Where

```

```
INPUT_DIRECTORY: Path to the directory containing images with annotations.
INPUT_ANNOTATIONS: Path to the images' annotation file.
OUTPUT_DIRECTORY: Path to the output directory.
```

> ## Model Training & Evaluation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Model Training & Evaluation

```

> Training a Deep Learning model for a given computer vision task is possible at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Training a Deep Learning model for a given computer vision task is taken care of by
```

[train.py](src/training/train.py). It can be executed as follows:

```shell

> python train.py 
>     --training-images <TRAINING_IMAGES_DIRECTORY> 
>     --training-annotations <TRAINING_ANNOTATIONS_PATH>
>     --validation-images <VALIDATION_IMAGES_DIRECTORY>
>     --validation-annotations <VALIDATION_ANNOTATIONS_PATH>
>     --output-path <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>
>     --batch-size <BATCH_SIZE>
>     --epochs <EPOCHS>

Reviewer: Don't you need `\` at the end of each line?

```suggestion
python train.py \
    --training-images <TRAINING_IMAGES_DIRECTORY> \ 
    --training-annotations <TRAINING_ANNOTATIONS_PATH> \
    --validation-images <VALIDATION_IMAGES_DIRECTORY> \
    --validation-annotations <VALIDATION_ANNOTATIONS_PATH> \
    --output-path <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY> \
    --batch-size <BATCH_SIZE> \
    --epochs <EPOCHS>
```

```

> Where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Where:

```

```
TRAINING_IMAGES_DIRECTORY: Path to the directory containing training images.
TRAINING_ANNOTATIONS_PATH: Path to the annotation file of the training set.
VALIDATION_IMAGES_DIRECTORY: Path to the directory containing validation images.
VALIDATION_ANNOTATIONS_PATH: Path to the annotation file of the validation set.
OUTPUT_DIRECTORY: Path to the output directory, where the model will be saved.
BATCH_SIZE: Size of training and validation batches. Default 16.
EPOCHS: Number of epochs. Default 50.
``` 

> We also provide a [Jupyter notebook](src/evaluation/evaluation.ipynb) for model evaluation, so one can quickly check quantitative and qualitative metrics as well as export them to a PDF file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We also provide a [Jupyter notebook](src/evaluation/evaluation.ipynb) for model evaluation, so one can quickly check quantitative and qualitative metrics as well as export them to a PDF file.
```
